NAME
  SNPfoldPy - calculate the amount of structure change in an RNA given 
              specified SNPs
SYNOPSIS
  SNPfold_commandline.py [options] <sequence or seq file> <mutations or newline-delimited textile with mutations>
DESCRIPTION
  SNPfoldPy is a modified version of SNPfold that is meant to have a deeper 
  feature set, play more nicely with recent versions of RNAfold, and in future
  updates have better depiction of prediction RNA structure change in figures.
  SNPfoldPy primarily works with data generated from the  partition function 
  calculation feature carried out in RNAfold, which utilizes an algorithm 
  based on the work of J.S. McCaskill to calculate a matrix of base-pairing 
  probabilities for a given sequence of RNA. Given a sequence of RNA, the 
  RNAfold program can under partition function mode return a postscript file 
  that contains, among other things, a listing of all non-zero probabilities 
  of base pairing for all nucleotides in the sequence.   SNPfoldPy constructs 
  matrices of base-pairing probabilities from these output files for multiple 
  sequence variants of and quantifies the structure change brought about by a 
  given mutation or mutations, as well as the mutation's significance in terms 
  of structure changing capability compared to all other possible mutations 
  in the RNA.   SNPfoldPy can return several output files, including 
  partition function derived base pairing probabilities per nucleotide, 
  normalized shannon entropies per nucleotide and SNARNASM formatted output 
  files.   When running SNPfoldPy, the sequence and mutations are required at 
  bare minimum.   The user can either paste the sequence directly into the 
  command line command to run the program, or list the name of a two-line fasta 
  file containing the sequence of interest.  Mutations that the user wishes to 
  analyze must be entered in colon-delimited format, in the format of 
  wildtype_nucleotide(s)[position relative to 5' end]mutant_nucleotide(s) 
  (ex: A31U:G33C:C18A etc).   If the user wishes to analyze sequence variants 
  involving combinations of SNPs, they can list the SNPs for a given variant 
  seperated by commas (ex: A31U,G33C:C18A,G17C etc).   The user may also 
  substitute with larger mutations (ex: AG31UC), though keep in mind that 
  p-value calculations will be disabled as a result, as our current 
  calculations are incompatible with finding the significance of a 
  mutation such as this type. SNPfoldPy is written for use on a Linux/Unix 
  type of operating system, and requires installation of the Numpy module 
  for Python.
OPTIONS
  -A, --accurate    Calculate p-values for SNPs indicated by user (if any input
  mutations are not point mutations, this option will be cancelled).   The 
  option will tell SNPfold to go ahead and calculate correlation coefficients 
  for base-pairing probability and shannon entropy change for all possible 
  single mutations in the RNA, and then find the rank of the mutation(s) 
  in question.   This allows for an accurate assessment of a mutation's 
  secondary structure-changing potential in comparison to all other single 
  mutations in a given transcript.   Unfortunately, it can make the runtime 
  go up substantially.   Take note that the calculation of accurate p-values 
  go up on the order of N^3, where N represents the length of the RNA sequence
  in question.   It is not advisable to try to calculate accurate p-values for 
  a sequence greater than 2000 nucleotides in length.   Also take note that by
  default, the input sequence, mutation correlation coefficients and accurate
  p-values, as well as all correlation coefficients calculated for every 
  possible single mutation will be saved in a directory in the output folder.
  -m, --metric=[bpProbs,cc,shannon]    Control which items are returned to 
  user.   Default setting is cc (reports correlation coefficient and shannon 
  entropy per mutation).   Setting to bpProbs will return bpProbabilities per 
  nucleotide per sequence variant (stored in output directory), while setting 
  to shannon will do the same with shannon entropy (stored in output 
  directory).
  -s, --save    Save results to an output directory with a name that is either
  random or, if -n is passed as an option, user-defined.   Is activated without
  this arg if user uses [-m bpProbs], [-m shannon], [-m all], [-n dirname], 
  or [-S].
  -S, --SNARNASM    Output both bpProbs and shannon entropies in SNARNASM 
  format (each row is a position in the sequence, and each column represents a
  sequence variant)
  -h, --help    Display the contents of the README in the SNPfold source 
  folder.
  -n, --nameDir= <dirName>    Allows user to assign a name to the output dir 
  where output files will be placed.   Default setting is to assign a 
  randomized directory name consisting of eight characters.

REFERENCES
  M. Halvorsen, J. S. Martin, S. Broadaway, A. Laederach (2010) Disease-Associated Mutations that Alter the RNA Structural Ensemble.   
I.L.  Hofacker,  W.  Fontana,  P.F.  Stadler, S. Bonhoeffer, M. Tacker, P. Schuster (1994) Fast Folding and Comparison of RNA  Secondary  Structures.   Monatshefte  f. Chemie 125: 167-188
  M.  Zuker, P. Stiegler (1981) Optimal computer folding of large RNA sequences using thermodynamic and auxiliary information, Nucl Acid Res 9: 133-148 
  J.S. McCaskill (1990) The equilibrium partition  function  and  base  pair  binding probabilities for RNA secondary structures, Biopolymers 29: 1105-1119 
  I.L. Hofacker & P.F. Stadler (2006) Memory Efficient Folding Algorithms for Circular RNA Secondary Structures, Bioinformatics (2006)
  A.F. BompfA1/4newerer, R. Backofen, S.H. Bernhart, J. Hertel, I.L.  Hofacker,  P.F. Stadler,  S.  Will  (2007) "Variations on {RNA} Folding and Alignment: Lessons from Benasque" J. Math. Biol.
VERSION
This man page documents SNPfoldPy version 1.0.
AUTHORS
Matt Halvorsen, Chas Kissick, Kevin Curran, Sam Broadaway, Josh Martin, Alain Laederach
BUGS
None known (yet).
